when it comes to treating cancer through
metabolic therapy Dr thas citz stands
out as a leading voice in the field you
may have heard him share his insights on
popular Health podcasts with Dr Peter AA
Dr Mark Hyman or Steven Barlett while
these discussions do a great job
explaining how cancer cells have unique
metabolic vulnerabilities we can Target
many patients are left wondering how do
I actually put this knowledge into
practice to improve my outcomes today
I'm going to bridge that Gap I'll walk
you through practical ways to
incorporate Dr C's approach to metabolic
therapy into your treatment plan
covering everything from nutrition and
repurpose medications to dietary
supplements and lifestyle
modifications but first I want to
emphasize something important before you
implement any of the approaches we
discuss today please consult with the
licensed medical provider who knows your
specific
situation all right let's dive
in hello I'm Alina Ivanova medical
director of personalized medicine I want
to share with you the groundbreaking
work of Dr Thomas caed from Boston
College who has dedicated his career to
understanding ing how cancer cells
function differently from healthy cells
his research detailed in numerous papers
and his book cancer is a metabolic
disease buils on an remarkable Discovery
by Nobel priz winner Otto warberg cancer
cells are incredibly hungry for glucose
requiring up to 200 times more than
normal cells to survive but here's the
key Insight from Dr ca's research just
targeting glucose isn't enough his work
shows that the best outcomes come from
targeting both glucose and another
crucial fuel source for cancer cells an
amino acid called
glutamine doctor CED recommends using a
ketogenic diet essentially a very low
carbohydrate approach to help cut off
Cancer's glucose
Supply if you're interested in the
science behind how keto diets cancer
check out our detailed video in the
description while keto dietes are
excellent at reducing blood glucose
levels it's worth noting that one of Dr
cif's other recommendations a compound
called Don isn't currently accessible
since only available in clinical trials
which aren't running at the moment but
don't worry today I'll show you
practical accessible ways to Target
these same metabolic pathways we'll
explore specific Foods medications and
supplements that have been shown to help
block Cancer's access to both glucose
and
glutamine let's start with nutrition
while following a ketogenic diet
naturally reduces the glucose available
to cancer cells there is another
powerful strategy we can add specific
foods that actively block cancer cells
from using the glucose
that is present let me share some
fascinating examples consider medicinal
mushrooms like chaga and ceps these
powerful fungi which you can easily
consume as a tea have demonstrated an
impressive ability to block glucose
uptake in cancer cells we also see
similar benefits in common vegetables
like basil dandelion root and Adam all
back by research showing they can help
inhibit glucose
but what really excites me are the foods
that can Target both glucose and
glutenin Pathways
simultaneously three standouts here are
turmeric ginger and broccoli Sprouts
while you can find broccoli Sprouts in
health food stores for about $5 a
package I always recommend investing in
a $20 grow kit which can be purchased
online not only will you save money in
the long run but you'll have a Contin
supply of pesticide free Sprouts right
at home so speaking of turmeric and
ginger these are the only ingredients I
use in my juicing routine this dynamic
duo creates a spicy Bland that packs a
real punch against cancer studies
identified over 24 different anti-cancer
and health optimizing benefits from
their natural compounds here's how you
can think about
nutrition every meal is an opportunity
to fight cancer each bite can deliver
natural compounds that help block both
glutamine glucose or deliver other
anti-cancer
benefits if you're feeling overwhelmed
trying to find and keep track of all
these beneficial Foods I recommend you
take a look at the anti-cancer nutrition
app called nutr lip it is an incredible
tool for anti-cancer nutrition that
practically every patient in my clinic
uses what makes neutral lips so valuable
is how it simplifies complex nutritional
signs so patients can make practical
daily choices it helps you identify
foods that blood glutamate and glucose
provides detailed breakdowns of each
food's anti-cancer properties and even
shows how different foods have evidence
of improving treatments like
chemotherapy and radiation while
potentially reducing side effects one of
my favorite features is the daily
tracking you can actually see how your
intake of cancer fighting Foods Compares
from one day to the next I put links to
the app stores and encourage you to try
it now let's explore an exciting area of
cancer treatment repurpose
medications these are FDA Pro drugs that
were originally developed for the
conditions but researchers have
discovered they can also help fight
cancer by targeting its metabolic
pathways I want to share three
remarkable examples with you first let's
look at doxy cyon you might know this as
an antibiotic that cancer patients often
receive when fighting infections during
chemotherapy but here's what's
fascinating research has shown it can
actually disrupt how cancer cells use
glucose it works by affecting the
mitochondria the cells power plants
which forces cancer cells to change how
they process energy this not only
reduces their glucose consumption but
also limits how much glutamine certain
types of cancer cells can use
essentially starving them of two crucial
fuel sources the second medication is
mebendazol which has an incredible track
record of safety having been prescribed
to over 100 million people worldwide for
treating parasitic infection
scientists made an exciting Discovery
this medication can simultaneously
disrupt cancer cell's ability to use
both glucose and glutamine it works in
multiple ways it blocks glucose
Transporters on the cell surface
interferes with an enzyme called
glutaminase that cancer cells need to
process glutamine and even disrupts a
key signaling signaling pathway called
amtor that cancer cells rely on for
their
metabolism our third example is
metformin a common medication used as a
first light treatment for diabetes
researchers found it can effectively
disrupt cancer cells glucose metabolism
by targeting something called
mitochondria complex one this sets off a
chain reaction that ultimately reduces
cancer cells ability to take up and use
glucose for energy if you're interested
in exploring how these medications might
fit into your treatment plan I want you
to know that our Clinic personalized
medicine has experience in prescribing
these medications as part of metabolic
therapy you'll find a link to contact us
in the description
below while getting nutrients from food
is always our first choice sometimes
dietary supplements can play a valuable
role especially when it's challenging to
get therapeutic amounts of certain
compounds through diet alone let me tell
you about burin it's a fascinating
compound naturally found in the barks
stems and roots of certain plants while
you could try to consume these plant
parts directly berberin is much more
practical to take as a supplement what
makes burn particularly exciting in
Cancer Care is its ability to
simulaneously disrupt both glucose and
glutamine Pathways that cancer cells
depend on
let's break down how berberine works
it's like throwing multiple wrenches
into cancerous energy Machinery first it
inhibits cancer cells from making taking
up glucose and using it for energy it
does this by activating a cellular
master switch called
amk which reduces how much glucose
cancer cells can consume it also
decreases the number of glucose
transparts on cancer cells surface
making it even harder for them to access
glucose but berberin doesn't stop there
it also blocks a specific protein called
slc1 A5 that cancer cells use to absorb
glutamine essentially cutting off
another key fuel source now it may
surprise you but next stop is melatonin
while most people know it as the sleep's
hormone that our bodies naturally
produce melatonin is actually found in
some foods in addition to being
available as a supplement what's
remarkable about Bonin is that
scientists have discovered it has 11
different ways it can fight cancer when
it comes to targeting Cancer's
metabolism specifically melatonin works
in three key ways it reduces the number
of glucose Transporters on cancer cells
it interferes with enzymes that cancer
cells need to process glucose it helps
deplete glutathione which cancer cells
need for
survival for those interested in
exploring more supplement options that
can help block glucose and glutamine the
nutr leaf app has a comprehensive
database you can reference however I
want to emphasize something crucial
before adding any supplements to your
protocol please have a detailed
discussion with your healthcare provider
who knows your specific situation they
can help ensure these supplements are
appropriate and safe for your particular
case now let's talk about one final
powerful tool in your cancer fighting
tool kit physical activity regular
exercise isn't just about staying fit
it's a scientifically backed way to
support your cancer treatment on
multiple levels not only can exercise
potentially enhance your treatment's
Effectiveness and can boost your immune
system but it also helps manage
treatment side
effects and here's something
particularly relevant to our discussion
today exercise naturally helps lower
both glucose and glutamine levels in
your body directly supporting a
metabolic approach to fighting cancer I
know taking these steps can feel
overwhelming at first but remember
knowledge is power understanding these
practical strategies helps build the
confidence you need to take action and
improve your outcomes and we're not done
yet supporting you stay tuned For an
upcoming video where we'll dive deep
into other ways anti-cancer nutrition
can make a real difference in your
journey